So yesterday was a perfect time to take
another closer look to the Fireball
1500750.
And it was perfect because I'm not super
healthy at the moment. I have a cold. I
don't feel super well. So what I need is
an effortless foil.
Welcome to Meton foil.
>> So these are the two longd distance
foils from Axis. This one is the
Fireball 1750 and this is the 1500. And
I think I have around 3,000 bucks in my
hand. I think it's one Frank per cm uh
with this one. With this one, a little
less. But let's get into the long one to
start with.
So this foil is exceptional. It is 1 m
and 75 cm long and it's got an aspect
ratio of over 20. It says so here aspect
ratio 20.12
which is phenomenal. It's super slim
which makes it super efficient and that
doesn't make it easy though. This foil
is not easy to use. It is paired with
the skinny 25 stab which is also small
and the psycho short fuse. So the whole
setup is meant for efficiency. Now, when
you start it, you will immediately see
it is incredibly pitch sensitive, and
it's not a beginner's foil, that's for
sure. Um, you can see it here. And this
guy is an experienced foiler, not
calling names, but you actually have to
get used to this setup. Once you have it
though, you can go forever.
Not true. I cannot go forever, but
[music] it really feels effortless.
But wait a minute. What does effortless
actually mean? Does it mean that I can
go forever? I don't think so. Effortless
means to me that you don't need a lot of
effort to continue pumping.
And you really don't with these foils.
The problem is you need to find that
sweet spot. And as the pitch axis is
very delicate,
it needs a lot of training. So even to
go long on these foils, you need a lot
of training. Not in a sense of you need
to get fitter, you need to go jogging,
but you need a lot of time on that foil
and that's what I didn't have, but still
sometimes I really felt it and you
really need very little movement to
continue pumping. This guy here can go
forever. This is Nicolola Eton and he
has the world record on speed over an
hour. or he has a world record in long
distance foiling and he uses these foils
with a little customized shorter uh or
smaller stab and this foil is really
cool. You can still turn it which is
incredible for a foil that size probably
due [music] to the small wing tips but
if you see some seaweed ahead you can
still turn it. I [music] use it with the
fatty mass which is specially made for
wings that span because you really want
a stiff mass. Even though if it's a
little fatter, [music] doesn't matter.
You want a stiff connection. You want
that your board on the foil and you
don't want it to flex too much. So with
the fatty mast with this thick fuse,
this really works. And I for myself
would call myself an average foiler. I
think punk falling I might be a little
over average. I usually manage to really
start these, but then I can really feel
like to pump, you need a special
technique. You don't have to push uh or
make too big of movements with this
foil. You kind of have to feel it,
[music] feel how it glides, and just
make small adjustments. If I could train
with that, then I really think I could
go for a long, long time. Cuz speaking
of efficiency, man, this is crazy. If
you think, well, this is the foil for
me, go try it first, [music] cuz as I
said, it's really not easy. It might be
easier with a longer fuse. And I've
tested the 1500 with a longer fuse and a
bigger tail. So, this is the setup I
used with the 1500. This is the
ultrashort fuse, uh, which is [music] a
bit bigger. It's the fatty fuse as well.
And this is a 30 skinny. So a bigger
[music] tail wing, a smaller front wing,
but a longer fuse, which makes it less
pitch sensitive, but still possible to
pump. At least for me, you can really
feel the slight movements that you have
to [music] do when pumping these foils
compared to lower aspect foils. If you
want to go long distance, you can go
long distance with that as well.
>> [music]
>> So really no need to go over the top and
go for the biggest one. But just keep in
mind that these foils are not your
beginner foils. You're not reaching the
minute and then buy a foil like that and
be able to go forever. Also, the start
with these foils is not [music] too easy
because yes, you have a lot of time to
adjust because they have a super nice
glide, but [music] then still pumping is
not easy. Now, the build quality looks
really good. These foils are stiff.
These foils are fun. And uh the covers
that come with it actually are very
nice, too. Now, firstly, you probably
think, well, this is just a regular
cover and I can slide in. Yes, you can.
But if you look at it here, you actually
have lashes that go over the trailing
edge. And also for the tips, you can
slide that in here. And it just protects
your foil very well. So, make sure to
put that over before closing on both
sides. So, don't just slide it in, but
really take care of your gear. And these
[music] covers as well. A lot of
attention to detail. Those are really
nice. Also, [music] it says so what it
is so you never take the wrong one. So,
these fireballs are really [music] cool.
I don't know if you guys who watch this
consider buying something like this. So,
which one of these bad boys should you
get? It's a good question. Honestly, if
I were to pick one, I [music] would take
the 1500, but with the psycho short fuse
and the smaller tail takes some more
practice, but it's more effortless. So,
you're not making a mistake with either
of those, but that would be my personal
pick. If you have any questions about
these foils, hit me up in the comments
or on Instagram, Matt onfoil. And now,
let's get out with the Surge. I'm
excited as well. If you want an unbiased
review of all the surges, please tell me
so in the comments and keep these
reviews unbiased. Help me out with a cup
of coffee.
[music]
Heat